Vintage silk nagajuban with an all-over monochrome komon print of black and white uruko (repeated triangles that create a stylized fish or snake scale design).


A nagajuban is the traditional underwear worn down a kimono. In shape, it is very similar to a kimono but unlike a kimono, which is oversized in length, a nagajuban is shorter and made to comfortably fit inside the kimono. Nagajuban come in many designs and colors, but the most formal nagajuban are white.
The visible collar part (han-eri), is "detachable" so it can easily be changed for cleaning. It is often white but can be a different color and design to match, coordinate or complement the kimono (not all listed items have a han-eri). Sometimes a strip of fabric with a small loop, called emonnuki, is attached to the back of the collar, this loop is used to pull the collar down so the neckline is shown (If attached I can remove the emonnuki if you want). Han-eri and emonnuki are available as an add-on but are not needed when used as a nightgown or home wear.

Since a nagajuban is lighter and shorter than a kimono it can easily be worn as home wear or a nightgown. Each nagajuban comes with a koshihimo, a thin sash that can be used to close the nagajuban, in either white or pink (let me know which color you prefer when you place an order).

If you plan to wear the nagajuban with a kimono I can optionally adjust the size for you (length, width, sleeves). Note that this is not always possible and depends on the item. Let me know so I can check and let you know the costs. If you are looking for a specific size of nagajuban don't hesitate to contact me so I can check if I can find something.


Age: vintage
Condition: perfect

Summary
Kansai-shitate
Han-eri: polyester, attached
Emonnuki: attached
Ishikiate: attached

Length: 109 cm (mitake) optionally can be lengthened to 115.5 cm
Width: 121 cm (yuki: 60.5 cm)
Shoulder to shoulder: 60 cm (kata-haba: 30 cm)
Sleeve length: 48 cm (sode-take)
Weight: 500 g

Material: silk
Technique: print
Colors: white, black
Pattern/design: uruko (scales)
Kamon: mitsutomoe


Before you buy:
I try to list all major visible and known issues in the description, but since these are vintage items that sometimes have been in storage for decades, there might be additional less obvious issues.

I do my best to reproduce the correct color in the pictures; however, the actual color and sheen of the item may look slightly different from the images shown on your screen.

Make sure to check the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) section below.
If you would like additional info or pictures do not hesitate to contact me.